Hi Martin, David, and Morris,

   OK, here's our first assignment. Remember, think about how I'm explaining this to you and whether or not I'm doing this properly. 
   Right now, at this exact instant, the three of you are not experts. But by the time April comes around and the Nairobi Science Hack Day gets here, you *will* be experts 
   ...or at least you'll be more of an expert than others around you. So try to remember what you *don't* know now and think about how you will explain this process 
   to others. 

  Let's get started!

1) I've attached two files to this email. Each file has a single column of numbers. I'm not telling you anything about these numbers for the time being. 
Just that they come from the CMS experiment at the LHC. 

http://cms.web.cern.ch/

2) The first thing I ask my students is to ``explore" these data by making some plots. The simplest thing to do is to make two histograms of each of the numbers 
in these files. 

3) Use whatever computing tools you like to make these histograms. I'm curious to see what you would use. I used to use a package called ROOT, that was developed 
by particle physicists, but lately I've been mostly using python and matplotlib. But perhaps there are other tools that you would use? I don't know. Python is 
perfectly OK if that's what you feel comfortable with. Try to use something that allows you to save the image to a file (.jpg, .png, etc.).

4) Right now, I am giving you no guidance on how to make these plots: what should the range be (low limit or high limit?); what should the bin width be 
(coarse? fine? narrow?); what are interesting sub-ranges at which to look? This is how I usually start my students off because I want them to become comfortable with exploring the data to look at it in different ways. This is what we do as scientists. We should never become complacent or think we know the answers ahead of time. For that matter, we don't even always want to completely trust that our colleagues they've always done everything correctly!  :)  We want to verify for ourselves. 

5) Send me (and each other) the plots you make. Tell me if one or the other of these datasets is more or less interesting....or what ``interesting" means to you. After that we'll go from there!

   Take your time with this and feel free to discuss this among the three of you without me involved. I'm rather busy these days, so I'm going to apologize in advance if it sometimes takes me a couple of days to get back to you. 

   Good luck with this! I'm excited to see where this leads!
